---
layout: post
title: Diet Change
---

For a large part of my life, I had roughly followed a low-carb diet. I was by no means strict about it, but in the back of my mind, I was always trying to eat a lot of meat and high-fat foods while consuming very little carbs. There was even a time when the majority of my meals were orange chicken from Trader Joe's and bacon. To emphasize my ignorance, I once recall myself defending bacon as a healthy food on the basis of a blog post I had read about someone who ate only bacon for 1 month. It was only until a couple months ago that I found it necessary to make a diet change when I watched a TED Talk on YouTube by Ed Winters.

The TED Talk is [Every Argument Against Veganism](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=byTxzzztRBU). To be honest, I had never thought about the moral implications of eating animal products. It's uncomfortable to discover that you have been doing something morally indefensible since the time you were born. Over the next couple of days, I was hell-bent on finding bullet-proof arguments against veganism. Unfortunately, I could not find any. Understand that I absolutely love meat and still do. Three years ago, I went to an all-you-can-eat steakhouse and ate so much steak that I became dizzy and puked all over the toilet. After cleaning that up, I came back and proceeded to eat more steak. My love of sushi also knows no bounds. Just thinking about fatty tuna nigiri makes me salivate. I honestly doubt I'll ever be a fully committed vegan, and I'll most definitely feel guilty every time I eat animal products. This reminds me of the time when the serial killer, Samuel Little, stated that his desire to kill women is a curse. I view my love of meat in a similar fashion, though, fortunately for me, the social consequences are less dire.

Another influential moment in my diet change was watching the documentary [The Game Changers](https://gamechangersmovie.com) on Netflix. I came upon this documentary after watching a Joe Rogan [podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s0zgNY_kqlI) with James Wilks (the producer) and Chris Kresser. Kresser had "debunked" the documentary in a previous podcast episode. Wilks came on the podcast to rebut the points made by Kresser and, in my opinion, did so very effectively. The film not only explained the benefits of a plant-based diet but also featured many high-performing athletes who found competitive advantages in being plant-based. At this point, I was thoroughly convinced that being plant-based was both the healthy and moral decision.

My shift to a plant-based diet was somewhat rocky. Upon watching the initial TED Talk, I tried being vegan and failed miserably. At the time, I was still trying to be low-carb. Three days in, I was feeling very weak and even spilled chia seeds on the floor. In that moment, I quit, believing that my body was ill-equipped for a vegan diet. Deep down, I knew this was not true and just an excuse. Later, I decided to try being vegan again and ate Beyond Meat, which is high in fat. This time, I did not experience any drop in energy. I've now started to incorporate carbs and have abandoned my plant-based low-carb absurdity. Incorporating carbs has expanded the set of foods I now eat and has made it easier to feel satiated.

In terms of my personal experience, my energy levels feel the same. The only salient benefit is that my fullness decreases faster after meals. I'm reluctant to call myself a fully committed vegan because I don't think I would be mentally strong enough to resist kobe steak or fatty tuna if I were to visit Japan. These two things are the bests foods I've ever tasted in my life.

At the moment, "wannabe" vegan or plant-based is the best label for my diet.
