---
layout: post
title: Heroic Dose
---

There has been a surge of research in psychedelics after several decades of unfounded stigmatization. Most notably, the [Center for Psychedelic & Consciousness Research](https://hopkinspsychedelic.org/) at John's Hopkins has come out with an overwhelming amount of positive results. Although I understand the gravitas of history in our underlying institutions and laws, I value reason infinitely more. I question why a substance such as alcohol, which is toxic by virtually every measure, is legal, while a mere fungus, which not only has [zero evidence](https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/Press_releases/2006/GriffithspsilocybinQ) of neurotoxicity but has also been incredibly successful in [facilitating smoking cessation](https://files.csp.org/Psilocybin/Johnson2017Smoking.pdf), [treating addiction](http://www.centerforintegrativepsychology.org/Bogenschutz_16%20Psychedelics%20as%20aids%20for%20addiction%20therapy_Review.pdf), and [producing sustained decreases in depression and anxiety](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/pdf/10.1177/0269881116675513), is a Schedule 1 drug and tantamount to heroin and cocaine in the eyes of the law. You can view the achievements and publications of the John's Hopkins Center [here](https://hopkinspsychedelic.org/achievements) if you are skeptical.

My interest in psychedelics spurred from my interest in meditation. Both are mediums of exploring consciousness. The famed psychonaut Terrence McKenna stated that the correct way to take psilocybin mushrooms is 5 dried grams alone in the dark on an empty stomach. This high dosage is what many people claim to be the threshold for a "heroic dose" due to the terrifying and possibly life-changing experience. Being the curious soul that I am, I found myself on my bed with an empty stomach, a blindfold, and 5 dried grams of psilocybin mushrooms.

The mushrooms took approximately 40 minutes to kick in. During this first forty minutes, I listened to some guided meditation sessions to ensure that my mind (often referred to as "set") was in the right place. The initial effects placed me in an almost lucid dream-like state. Although a cannot recount the exact order of events that occurred, I do have a distant recollection of the main themes. To preface this, language cannot even begin to describe the raw sensations that were felt. To put the experience in words is almost a trivialization of it. It's as if I entered a whole different mode of existence and then came back and regained my sanity.

One of the most salient feelings was this intense sensation of warmth. And I'm not referring to physical warmth. It felt like there was this glow or aura around my body. The only way I can describe it is this overwhelming sense of love. Not only did I feel immensely loved, but I also had a love and appreciation for everything and everyone. I felt incredibly vulnerable and emotionally naked. It's as if my shell of protection was pierced by all the love in the world you could imagine. This overload of feelings brought me to tears. I cried uncontrollably for a decent amount of time and vividly recall my eye mask soaked in tears.

On top of that, there was zero concern for self. There didn't even seem to be a self to be concerned for. Things like shame, fear, and anxiety didn't exist. There was no divide between me and everything else. There was just consciousness and everything that appears there. I felt a deep sense of unity and interconnectedness with the world. All my walls of emotional defense were completely obliterated. The sheer awe and wonder of the present qualia literally took my breath away. I recall my lungs convulsing, and in my mind, I was trying to think of a way to explain the experience. Every time I tried, I just gasped. The only thing that came to my mind was "beauty." I kept thinking "This is so beautiful." Other thoughts I had were "Everyone should experience this," "If everyone could act from this place, the world would be so good," and "I wouldn't care if I felt like this forever."

Something else that was so clear to me is the ephemeral nature of life and that everything is meaningless. Yet at the same time, I could see that each moment is so beautiful. There's this idea that evolution doesn't care about you, and from a universal perspective, you don't matter. I felt this on a visceral level, and again, I couldn't help but admire the beauty of it. I could truly feel that there was nothing to lose. I was confused as to why I was worried before the trip because in my mind there was nothing to lose in the first place. My sanity? My life? Why would I be scared of losing that? That's what was going through my mind.

Curiosity was also a feeling that flooded my system. I wanted to see more and feel more. For some reason, this led to me thinking about Hitler. It was strange because I could only feel compassion for him despite all the deaths he was responsible for. There was a feeling that everyone - even the most atrocious human beings in history - is just doing what they think is best. It was impossible for me to feel anything different for someone.

As I came back to earth near the end of my third hour, I was thinking "What just happened?" It's like I came back from a completely different world with only a sliver of what had occurred. It's so difficult to conceptualize what took place in the form of ideas and language because the raw feeling is so different from anything I could imagine - even after having the experience.

My main takeaway from the experience is the knowledge that there is a mode of being that is so foreign to my regular mind that words and memory cannot do it justice. It's the realization that philosophical concepts that we understand about life and the world can be felt, and it's truly worth it to try living from that place.

Despite my clear bias towards this drug, I do recognize the dangers of using psychedelics. There's always the possibility of a bad trip, and certain people cannot afford their reality to be discombobulated even in the slightest. That's where spiritual guides come in. Guides help people throughout their trip and ensure that their set and setting are as optimal as possible. Unfortunately, they are typically only available in clinical research trials, international programs, and the few states where psychedelics are legal. It's quite unfortunate that psychedelics aren't legal in the US. Though, I'm sure that will change in the future.
