---
layout: post
title: Meditation
---

There are several things I do that my former self from just two years ago would be appalled by. One of these things is meditation. Why would I want to close my eyes and sit still for extended periods of time? What's the point? Sounds like a waste of time. Well, it's not a waste time, and I have found meditation to be one of the most useful tools to explore the nature of my own mind. This is incredibly important since our mind is all we will ever know, so why ignore it?

I have been practicing meditation (or mindulness) for around 6 months now, and I have found great utility in the practice. I used to just close my eyes and ponder certain questions, but later on, I wanted to learn the theory and methodology behind meditation. That's when I found the Waking Up app. Everything I've learned about meditation is from this app, so I will mainly point out the perceived benefits from my own personal experience. For those unfamiliar with meditation, it is simply the inspection of the mind and the nature of consciousness. Consciousness is the condition in which we experience everything - thoughts, emotions, sights, sounds, etc. And this very realization, that everything is just some modification of consciousness, is incredibly profound. Our mind is all we will ever know, and the way we handle whatever appears there can dramatically change our sense of well-being. Just as it's recommended to train our body, I believe it's just as important to train our mind.

Meditation has taught me how to inspect emotions as simply another object in consciousness. It used to be the case that I was dragged along by whatever appeared in my mind. I would think about how inadequate I am and how everyone seemed so much smarter than me, which would cause my mood to dip. Or I would be on Instagram and see all these people with ostensibly perfect lives and feel a sense of envy. At the time, this  seemed to be the only state to exist in, and the best thing I could do was repress these feelings. What I have learned from meditation is the ability to be mindful of these feelings. Instead of repressing them, I could feel them fully and observe them closely. Once this is done, certain realizations were found. For one, I found out that it is quite difficult to stay in these emotional states for longer than five minutes. I used to unconsciously feed into these negative thoughts, which would exasperate the duration of my mild neurosis. But now, this cycle is cut off, and I can inspect the feeling for what it is and, most importantly, learn something from it. Before, my only tools were exercise and sports, which are both very effective, but I now have another tool, mindfulness. The key difference between these two is that the former forcibly averts attention away from the current state, while the latter pays closer attention to the current state, exposing its tenuous nature.

Two emotions that I have shifted my perspective about are envy and regret. These emotions have a seemingly negative valence to them, but I've realized that these aren't necessarily bad things to feel. Envy simply indicates what we want for ourselves, while regret indicates what actions we may want to avoid in the future. The extent of my suffering was due to the inability to see this truth. Rather than drawing information from why these emotions arose, I got stuck in the thoughts of inadequacy and feelings of stupidity without even realizing I was stuck. The power of mindfulness is that I can quickly realize when my thoughts are of no use and then avert my attention towards more productive thoughts. During some meditation sessions, I have even brought up the typical thoughts associated with envy and found them to have zero effect on my well-being. It is almost as if the sheer attention I give to these negative thoughts rob them of power.

Meditation has gotten a bad wrap because of it's assocation with Eastern religions, but it really is just 1) the inspection of the mind and 2) the training of attention. It seems quite obvious to me why these things are important. Just as schools have some form of physical education, so too should they have some form of mindfulness education. It has been a gamechanger for me and my own sense of well-being, and I was never one to experience severe waves of anxiety or depression. I could only imagine the benefit for people who actually deal with these issues.
