---
layout: post
title: Hell
---

There is something to be said about experiencing hell and coming back unscathed. Recently, I decided to partake of another heroic dose (5 dried grams of psilocybin mushrooms). In the back of my mind, I hoped that it would be similar to the first, overwhelmingly positive experience, but I knew that two trips are never alike. In fact, this trip took quite the opposite valence of my first trip. Many would refer to this as a bad trip, but I personally prefer the word challenging. I think there's always something to learn from these other-worldly experiences, no matter how good or bad they may seem. In my first trip, I only wore a blindfold. This time, I wore both earmuffs and a blindfold. This seems like a minute detail, but it totally enhances the experience. The combination of earmuffs and a blindfold left me completely alone with my mind, and the effect was much more powerful.

I ate the mushrooms at 7:40 pm after I had just taken a walk in the beautiful weather outside. I immediately took a cold shower and then read some [trip instructions](https://www.trippingly.net/lsd-studies/2018/5/16/trip-instructions). The goal was to have the right mindset, often referred to as set, going in. The affirmation "trust, let go, be open" was constantly lingering in the back of my head as well as the knowledge that I would always be safe during the trip. I went on to do a couple of guided meditations before the effects of the mushrooms began to set in.

I knew the effects were setting in because I began to hallucinate. It was as if I was being carried through an alien world. I literally saw creatures coming out of the matrix, and it was colorful too. As I thought about what was happening, I imagined that I was simply being led through my own mind.

While the theme of my first trip was beauty, the theme of this one was fear. It was as though my entire being became the sheer manifestation of fear itself. The whole experience is ineffable. I was thinking about how lightly this word is used. For something to be ineffable means that is impossible to describe. Fear is a word. It is the best word to describe what I felt, but it most definitely does not come close to describing what I felt. There was nothing that I feared. I simply felt fear as intensely as one could possibly imagine. There was also a powerful sensation of evil that is impossible to put into words. I was legitimately thinking that I would not wish what I was presently feeling on my worst enemy. To actually feel this way is ridiculous and by no means an exaggeration.

In addition to being absolutely terrified, I also felt how absolutely pathetic and stupid we humans are. It is apparent that people, including myself, find meaning and purpose through an entirely culturally constructed system that only has merit because we believe it does. Once we are stripped down to our core, in other words, if we take away all these cultural constructions, we are left naked and terrified. I felt this viscerally, and to say the least, it is uncomfortable. This feeling somehow made me laugh a bit. I simply found it humorous to actually feel how stupid I am. And I am not referring to knowledge. I am referring to this blind but necessary faith I put in this culturally constructed system, without even realizing the depth of my belief. I think I know why I do what I do when, in fact, I know nothing of it.

I reached a point in my trip when I had to use the bathroom. Just going to the bathroom and coming back felt like a journey. Time dilation is a common theme in bad trips, and this was certainly present in mine. When I finally got back to my bed, I was too scared to put my earmuffs and blindfold back on, so I just layed in bed with my eyes closed. I began to think about the Bible and what I learned about hell. At the moment, it seemed quite possible that the hell described in the Bible was exactly what I was feeling. The archaeologist John Allegro wrote about how Christianity could have originated from the use of psychedelic mushrooms. I haven't read any of his books, but his thesis seems plausible. I was thinking about the verse in the Bible that says "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom." I felt like I truly understood this verse on a deep, fundamental level. Looking back, this seems absurd because I'm not religious. Nonetheless, it seemed strikingly clear to me at that moment.

There was a moment in the trip when two things were viscerally evident: 1) I do not want to be alone and 2) I just want to be loved. This is coming from a guy that has adopted, for much of his life, a lone wolf mentality and is, for the most part, disengaged from his family. I've been aware of these issues for some time now, but this trip has really brought them to the forefront. Hopefully, this has ignited a change in heart, but we'll have to wait and see.

As my trip ended, I felt as though I would be traumatized for the rest of my life. My mind was metaphorically shattered into millions of pieces, and I felt broken. I did not think I would recover. There was this strong feeling of discomfort in my sternum, which lasted for days after the trip ended. Luckily, I am not traumatized at all. I am simply grateful to have had experienced hell and come back unscathed.